doc/source/index.rst, before:

===========================================
Welcome to Mogan's developer documentation!
===========================================

Introduction
============

Mogan is an OpenStack project dedicated for bare metal computing management,
which is designed specifically for bare metals, so compared with Nova, we can
provide a more lightweight and convenient platform with more advanced features
by leveraging Ironic. Besides this, we also plan to support RSD, then we can
not only provide Pre-set Configuration Servers, but also Custom Servers.

Site Notes
----------

This site is primarily intended to provide documentation for developers
interested in contributing to or working with mogan. It *also* contains
references and guides for administrators which are not yet hosted elsewhere on
the OpenStack documentation sites.


Developer's Guide
=================

Getting Started
---------------

If you are new to mogan, this section contains information that should help
you get started as a developer working on the project or contributing to the
project.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  Developer Contribution Guide <dev/code-contribution-guide>
  Setting Up Your Development Environment <dev/dev-quickstart>


Administrator's Guide
=====================

Configuration
-------------

There are many aspects of the Bare Metal Compute service which are environment
specific. The following pages will be helpful in configuring specific aspects
of mogan that may or may not be suitable to every situation.

You can use `tox -egenconfig` to generate the sample config file.

Command References
==================

Here are references for commands not elsewhere documented.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  cmds/mogan-dbsync

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Guru Meditation Reports
=======================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   dev/gmr

Commit message:

[DOC] Move gmr to Advanced testing and guides section
Change-Id: Icb2d936c53bb1be84cce63683d2e8d4208a5801f

doc/source/index.rst, after:

..
      Copyright 2010-2012 United States Government as represented by the
      Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
      All Rights Reserved.

      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

===========================================
Welcome to Mogan's developer documentation!
===========================================

Introduction
============

Mogan is an OpenStack project dedicated for bare metal computing management,
which is designed specifically for bare metals, so compared with Nova, we can
provide a more lightweight and convenient platform with more advanced features
by leveraging Ironic. Besides this, we also plan to support RSD, then we can
not only provide Pre-set Configuration Servers, but also Custom Servers.

Site Notes
----------

This site is primarily intended to provide documentation for developers
interested in contributing to or working with mogan. It *also* contains
references and guides for administrators which are not yet hosted elsewhere on
the OpenStack documentation sites.


Developer's Guide
=================

Getting Started
---------------

If you are new to mogan, this section contains information that should help
you get started as a developer working on the project or contributing to the
project.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  Developer Contribution Guide <dev/code-contribution-guide>
  Setting Up Your Development Environment <dev/dev-quickstart>


Administrator's Guide
=====================

Configuration
-------------

There are many aspects of the Bare Metal Compute service which are environment
specific. The following pages will be helpful in configuring specific aspects
of mogan that may or may not be suitable to every situation.

You can use `tox -egenconfig` to generate the sample config file.

Command References
==================

Here are references for commands not elsewhere documented.

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  cmds/mogan-dbsync

Advanced testing and guides
----------------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

   dev/gmr

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`search`
